## Basic Info
### Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning Visualization

Contributers: 

Daniel Mortenson A01574901 daniel.t.mortensen@gmail.com

Tanner Wheeler A01770306 tanner.wheeler@aggiemail.usu.edu

Repository: [https://github.com/tannerwheeler/CS5890_project](https://github.com/tannerwheeler/CS5890_project)

## Background and Motivation
Synergy can be defined as an interaction or cooperation of two or more organizations, substances, or other agents to produce a combined effect greater than the sum or their separate efforts. Throughout human history, this principle has been shown to generate thoughts, creativity, and results that far surpass the collective cababilities of the individuals. Because working together has engendered many of the greatest acheivements to date, it is desired that this capability be extended to machine learning applications.

The data provided for this project is generated by a graph-based multi-agent reinforcement learning problem where individual agents are responsible for maximizing reward for both themselves as individuals, and for the team collectively.  The idea being that this concept of synergy and working together for the greater good be implemented in software such that individual entities maximize reward through coordinated efforts.  The learning aspect comes from tuning parameters in a model to achieve the desired behavior.  In this case, a policy function will be developed that takes the current entity and team state as input and returns an action. To make this effort a success, it will be important to gather insight into what causes the algorithm to learn and behave as it does which in the world of machine learning is perhaps the greatest challenge. To aid in this process, a comprehensive visualization is desired which will help the developer identify the algorithm's strengths and weaknesses, and gain insight into why the algorithm performs in the observed manner.

## Project Objectives
The purpose of this visulization is to decrease cognitive load when analyzing data from a multi-agent reinforcement learning algorithm. The simulator has been written in C++ and the proposed visualization will be constructed using Javascript and d3.  With the proposed design, the viewer will be able to visualize trends and behaviors that lead to team success. Some of these trends are based off of individual states such as health, fuel, position, etc. while others may have to do with global information such as strategic positioning of teammates.  All of these factors contribute to reward gain, or the forward progress the team makes towards accomplishing it's objective.  For further analysis, the viewer will also be able to see stats on each team at specific time steps during a simulation.  This will help the game designers and viewers gain necessary information towards understanding what is occuring during game play, specifically the underlying causes that indicate why a team wins while another loses.

## Data
The data for this visualization is comprised of individual agent states and rewards gathered during each simulation.  The simulation generates a binary file containing the aforementioned state data which can be read into Matlab and converted to a JSON format.  Each file will contain time stamps, individual state data, all pertinent global conditions, and reward gains.  The individual state data is comprised of health, mass, position, velocity, and fuel which, in addition to reward gains, are recorded at each time stamp. The number of units as well as the graph structure for any given simulation can vary and are predefined by the user.  The game can be played with an arbitrary number of nodes ranging from smaller maps such as 10 nodes to something larger, perhaps on the order of 1000+.

## Data Processing
The data will be complete. Because the simulation provides the information needed there should not be any values that are missing or that need approximating.  From the data the overall stats for the team will be available. There will be a summary of health, fuel, mass, velocity, position, and reward data for each agent at each timestep. This data will be read into Matlab and converted into a JSON file. This will allow for easier parsing on the Javascript side and help the user easily travers the data.

## Visualization Design

## Must-Have Features

## Optional Features

## Project Schedule

